Humans must become cyborgs to survive, says Elon Musk

Humans must become cyborgs and develop a direct high-bandwidth connection with
machines or risk irrelevance and obsolescence, says Tesla and SpaceX founder
Elon Musk.

Musk's latest cheery thoughts were imparted at the World Government Summit in
the UAE. "Over time I think we will probably see a closer merger of biological
intelligence and digital intelligence," Musk said, according to CNBC.

The main thrust of Musk's argument seems to hinge on the limited bandwidth and
processing power of a single human being. Computers can ingest, transfer, and
process gigabytes of data per second, every second, forever. Meatbags, however,
are severely limited by an input/output rate—talking, typing, listening—that's
best measured in bits per second. Thus, avoid replacement by robot or artificial
intelligence, we need to become machines.

By way of example, Musk spoke about self-driving cars, which will very soon
start displacing jobs—lots and lots of jobs. "The most near term impact from a
technology standpoint is autonomous cars ... There are many people whose jobs
are to drive. In fact I think it might be the single largest employer of people
... We need to figure out new roles for what do those people do, but it will be
very disruptive and very quick."

Autonomous vehicles are perhaps the most visible prominence when it comes to
recent developments in AI, but rest assured (or not) that we aren't even close
to AI's capability ceiling. Current deployments of AI are quite limited in that
they can only perform one or two tasks adequately—drive a car, lift a piece of
steel, flip a burger—but AI research is slowly bubbling towards artificial
general intelligence (AGI), which can ostensibly perform every task that a human
is capable of.

Once that happens, it's fairly safe to assume that AGI will continue to improve
until, in the words of Elon Musk, it is "smarter than the smartest human on
earth."

As for how humans might achieve silicon symbiosis, the jury's still out. Musk,
according to CNBC, proposed a brain-attached high-bandwidth computer link,
perhaps via neural lace. Low-speed and low-resolution EEG-based brain-computer
interfaces already exist, of course, but I doubt that's what Musk has in mind.
In all likelihood, we will need to massively improve our understanding of the
human brain before any such interface can be created.

It's quite fun to plot the journey of Musk's thoughts. Back in 2015, Musk called
for a ban on military use of AI. In 2016 he asserted that we'd need a universal
income because robots will take all the jobs. Now he's worked out that we can be
useful and retain our jobs—we just need to increase our output by merging with
the machines.

Hopefully we'll be allowed to keep our higher faculties, like Doctor Who's
Cybermen, which themselves were based on early musings on cybernetics and
cyborgs.

---

It might be time to stop using antivirus

Former Firefox developer Robert O'Callahan, now a free agent and safe from the
PR tentacles of his corporate overlord, says that antivirus software is
terrible, AV vendors are terrible, and that you should uninstall your antivirus
software immediately—unless you use Microsoft's Windows Defender, which is
apparently okay.

A couple of months back, Justin Schuh, Google Chrome's security chief, and
indeed one of the world's top infosec bods, said that antivirus software is "my
single biggest impediment to shipping a secure browser." Further down the thread
he explains that meddling AV software delayed Win32 Flash sandboxing "for over a
year" and that further sandboxing efforts are still on hold due to AV. The
man-in-the-middle nature of antivirus also causes a stream of TLS (transport
layer security) errors, says Schuh, which in turn breaks some elements of
HTTPS/HSTS.

These are just two recent instances of browser makers being increasingly upset
with antivirus software. Back in 2012, Nicholas Nethercote, another Mozillian
working on Firefox's MemShrink project said that "McAfee is killing us." In that
case, Nethercote was trying to reduce the memory footprint of Firefox, and found
that gnarly browser add-ons like McAfee were consuming a huge amount of memory,
amongst other things. If you venture off-piste into the browser mailing lists,
anti-antivirus sentiment has bubbled away just below the surface for a very long
time.

The problem, from the perspective of the browser makers, is that antivirus
software is incredibly invasive. Antivirus, in an attempt to catch viruses
before they can infect your system, forcibly hooks itself into other pieces of
software on your computer, such as your browser, word processor, or even the OS
kernel. O'Callahan gives one particularly egregious example: "Back when we first
made sure ASLR was working for Firefox on Windows, many AV vendors broke it by
injecting their own ASLR-disabled DLLs into our processes." ASLR, or
address-space layout randomisation, is one of the better protections against
buffer overflow exploits.

Furthermore, because of the aforementioned knotweed-style rhizomes of antivirus
programs, the AV software itself presents a very large attack surface. As in,
without AV installed, a hacker might have to find a vulnerability in the browser
or operating system—but if there's AV present, the hacker can also look for a
vulnerability there. This wouldn't necessarily be a problem if AV makers made
secure software, but for the most part they don't (except for Windows Defender,
because Microsoft is "generally competent," according to O'Callahan).

Back in June last year, Google's Project Zero found 25 high-severity bugs in
Symantec/Norton security products. "These vulnerabilities are as bad as it
gets," said Tavis Ormandy, a Project Zero researcher. "They don’t require any
user interaction, they affect the default configuration, and the software runs
at the highest privilege levels possible. In certain cases on Windows,
vulnerable code is even loaded into the kernel, resulting in remote kernel
memory corruption." Over the past five years, Ormandy has found similar
vulnerabilities in security software from Kaspersky, McAfee, Eset, Comodo, Trend
Micro, and others.

All this isn't to say that you (or your parents) shouldn't use antivirus
software, but you should certainly be aware that using antivirus software
doesn't necessarily make your computer any more secure. In some cases, AV might
make your computer less secure, and cause a deleterious effect on system
performance—and, if you believe the browser makers, the continuing popularity of
AV software might have a gnarly knock-on effect on other developers, too.

The nail in the coffin, according to O'Callahan, is that software vendors rarely
speak out about antivirus issues "because they need cooperation from the AV
vendors." He then links to a mailing list thread in 2012, where he suggests
keeping a list of the AV software that interferes with Firefox. Later in the
thread, Mozilla PR swoops in and tells him to knock it off.

Antivirus software is so ingrained with Windows users, and synonymous with the
concept of "good security," that software makers have their hands tied. "When
your product crashes on startup due to AV interference, users blame your
product, not AV," O'Callahan says. "Worse still, if they make your product
incredibly slow and bloated, users just think that's how your product is ... You
can't tell users to turn off AV software because if anything bad were to happen
that the AV software might have prevented, you'll catch the blame."

As always, irrespective of whether you decide to use AV, regularly updating your
OS and software is one of the best ways to keep your computer safe. This also
means that you should stop using Windows 7 or 8 and update to Windows 10.

When it comes to keeping your personal data safe, the problem is a little more
complex: all of the sandboxing and antimalware software in the world won't save
you from a well-executed phishing attack, or if a database that contains your
details is breached. For that, you should use unique passwords, a physical
security key where possible, and generally be very wary of offering up any kind
of personally identifiable data.
